# speeding-vehicle-identifier
EECS149 Final Project Repository

## Cloud Architecture & Image Processing
The entirety of the cloud infastructure was built with AWS and functions as follows.

The Raspberry Pi(s) upload the captured image and any relevant metadata to an S3 bucket. This triggers a lambda's handler function to activate and pass in the uploaded image into AWS Rekognition which allows for extraction of text from images. In our case we pass in the captured image of the license plate. Rekognition outputs text in terms of rows so if we have a license plate in the format where the state is above the license plate number then that text will be index 0 and the plate will be index 1. Rekognition also provides additional ability to filter text which allows us tune the system for different regions and license plate configurations. The lambda handler receives the returned text and uploads it to a DynamoDB table along with relevant data such as a timestamp. The DynamoDB table has its primary key as the license plate number and the secondary key as the timestamp. In this way we can view indexed information on violations along with any additional metadata which is desired to be uploaded to the table. 

The benefit of this cloud based approach is that we no longer need to do image processing and computer vision tasks (which are very compute and memory intensive) on our boards. Instead we are only limited by our upload speed to the S3 buckets and since we are not streaming and only uploading a single image at a time, this time shouldn't be too long though this depends on the internet speed. Furthermore, this process is scalable to as many Raspberry Pis and sensors as you want. You can upload to the S3 bucket from multiple devices in parallel and the lambda along with text extraction tasks also automatically scale and can run in parallel. The DynamoDB table offers a flexible way to upload vasts amount of data which can vary based on what information is desired to be captured and gives a centralized location for data storage.
